Add CDC Inbound Endpoint related Docs (#845)
wso2/docs-mi: en/docs/reference/connectors/cdc-inbound-endpoint/cdc-inbound-endpoint-example.md

# CDC Inbound Endpoint Example 

The CDC (Change Data Capture) inbound endpoint enables you to capture changes made to data in a database. Consider a scenario where the database crashes at some point, leading to the loss of data related to certain operations. This highlights the need to synchronize the data with a cloud-based backup storage. To minimize risk, updating the cloud storage in real time is preferable to batch updates. Therefore, it is important to detect modification events and update the cloud storage accordingly. The CDC inbound endpoint can be used for this purpose.

## What you'll build

> This scenario demonstrates how the CDC inbound endpoint can be used to capture changes occurring in a MySQL database. In this example, we will configure the **CDC Inbound Endpoint** to capture changes made to a **MySQL** table, such as insertions, updates, and deletions.

Reviewer: Why `MySQL` is in blod text in some places while others are not?

Author: It was unintentional. I'll update the text.

In this example, a relational database table is used to store product information. The product data is added to the database by an external system that is outside of the enterprise's control. As soon as a new product is inserted, the system needs to detect and process the data. The integration runtime is used here to listen for database changes and trigger the relevant processes. It can either invoke backend APIs or place the data onto a message bus after performing the necessary data transformations. However, for the sake of simplicity in this example, we will simply log the message. You can extend this example as needed using WSO2 mediators.

## Set up the environment 

1. First, install [MySQL database](https://www.mysql.com/) locally. If you have a remote server, please obtain the credentials required to connect.  

2. Connect to MySQL server.

3. Create a database called `inventory`. 
    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE inventory;
    ```

> 4. Then, create a table called `products` under that database using the following SQL script. 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we run 'use inventory' to switch to the database before this.

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE products (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        price REAL NOT NULL
    );
    ```

> 6. Download the latest Debezium Orbit JAR for **2.1.4.Final.wso2v2** from [nexus](https://maven.wso2.org/nexus/content/repositories/public/org/wso2/orbit/debezium/debezium/) and place it in `<Project Home>/deployment/libs` directory.

Reviewer: While the text says to download ` 2.1.4.Final.wso2v2` the given link has only `2.1.4.Final.wso2v1`

Author: It is now available in the given link.

Reviewer 3: Shall we avoid the jar name and just say to download the latest Debezium Orbit JAR? This way, we don't have to change the doc every time we do a JAR release.

Reviewer: Yes That is better

Author: I fixed it.

> 6. Download the latest Debezium Orbit JAR for **2.1.4.Final.wso2v2** from [nexus](https://maven.wso2.org/nexus/content/repositories/public/org/wso2/orbit/debezium/debezium/) and place it in `<Project Home>/deployment/libs` directory.

Reviewer: Define what is meant by `Project Home` here? For a new uers it is not intiutive.

Author: Sure. I'll add.

7. Download the JDBC driver from the [MySQL website](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/), and copy it into the `<Project Home>/deployment/libs` directory.

8. Create a user. For detailed instructions, refer to the [MySQL Creating User](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#mysql-creating-user) documentation. 

8. Enable binlog. For detailed instructions, refer to the [Enable MySQL Binlog](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#enable-mysql-binlog) documentation. 

9. Enable GTIDs. For detailed instructions, refer to the [Enable MySQL GTIDs](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#enable-mysql-gtids) documentation. 

!!! info 
    If you try a different database, the respective JDBC driver has to be downloaded and placed into the `<Project Home>/deployment/libs` directory. 

## Configure inbound endpoint using micro integrator

{!includes/create-new-project.md!}

> 4. Create a sequence to process the capturing of a data change. 

Reviewer: Fix the numbering

Author: The file `includes/create-new-project.md` provides the first 3 steps; therefore, I started from step 4 onward.

            <parameter name="connector.class">io.debezium.connector.mysql.MySqlConnector</parameter>
            <parameter name="database.hostname">localhost</parameter>
            <parameter name="database.port">3306</parameter>
            <parameter name="database.user">root</parameter>
            <parameter name="database.password"></parameter>
            <parameter name="database.dbname">inventory</parameter>
            <parameter name="database.server.id">1</parameter>
            <parameter name="table.include.list">inventory.products</parameter>
            <parameter name="allowed.operations">update, create, delete</parameter>
        </parameters>
    </inboundEndpoint>
    ```

## Get the project

You can download the ZIP file and extract the contents to get the project code.

<a href="{{base_path}}/assets/attachments/connectors/cdc-inbound-endpoint.zip">
    <img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/connectors/download-zip.png" width="200" alt="Download ZIP">
</a>

!!! tip
    You may need to update the database details and make other such changes before deploying and running this project.

## Build and Run

Create the artifacts:

{!includes/build-and-run.md!}

> 4. [Deploy the artifacts]({{base_path}}/develop/deploy-artifacts) in your Micro Integrator.

Reviewer: Fix the numbering

## Test

### Add a new record

1. In the MySQL terminal, execute the following SQL command to insert a new customer record into the table.

    ```sql
    INSERT INTO products (name, price) VALUES ('IPhone 14', 333.99);
    ```

2. You will see a log entry in the WSO2 server console similar to the following:

    ```
    [2024-08-22 14:45:12,996]  INFO {LogMediator} - {inboundendpoint:cdc-inbound-endpoint} To: , MessageID: urn:uuid:5F9F8759FEEABE8BAD1724318113031, Direction: request, Payload: {"op":"CREATE","before":null,"after":{"id":12,"name":"IPhone 14","price":333.99}}
    ```

### Update an existing record 

> 1. In the MySQL terminal, execute the following SQL command to insert a new customer record into the table.

Reviewer: this should be not `insert a new customer record`

    ```sql
    UPDATE products SET name = 'IPhone 15' WHERE id = 12;
    ```

2. You will see a log entry in the WSO2 server console similar to the following:

    ```
    [2024-08-22 14:49:50,195]  INFO {LogMediator} - {inboundendpoint:cdc-inbound-endpoint} To: , MessageID: urn:uuid:5F9F8759FEEABE8BAD1724318390233, Direction: request, Payload: {"op":"UPDATE","before":{"id":12,"name":"IPhone 14","price":333.99},"after":{"id":12,"name":"IPhone 15","price":333.99}}
    ```

## Delete an existing record

> 1. In the MySQL terminal, execute the following SQL command to insert a new customer record into the table.

Reviewer: Ditto

    ```sql
    DELETE FROM products WHERE id = 12;
    ```

2. You will see a log entry in the WSO2 server console similar to the following:

    ```
    [2024-08-22 14:53:45,570]  INFO {LogMediator} - {inboundendpoint:cdc-inbound-endpoint} To: , MessageID: urn:uuid:5F9F8759FEEABE8BAD1724318625607, Direction: request, Payload: {"op":"DELETE","before":{"id":12,"name":"IPhone 15","price":333.99},"after":null}
    ```

> > **Note**: You can do any type of advanced integration using the rich mediator catalog, not just logging. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: You can do any type of advanced integration using the available mediators in the mediator catalog, not just logging. 
```

Reviewer 2: Point to the mediator catalog doc

1. First, install [MySQL database](https://www.mysql.com/) locally. If you have a remote server, please obtain the credentials required to connect.  

2. Connect to MySQL server.

3. Create a database called `inventory`. 
    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE inventory;
    ```

4. Switch to the database `inventory`.
    ```sql
    USE DATABASE inventory;
    ```

4. Then, create a table called `products` under that database using the following SQL script. 
    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE products (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        price REAL NOT NULL
    );
    ```

5. Create a user. For detailed instructions, refer to the [MySQL Creating User](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#mysql-creating-user) documentation. 

6. Enable binlog. For detailed instructions, refer to the [Enable MySQL Binlog](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#enable-mysql-binlog) documentation. 

7. Enable GTIDs. For detailed instructions, refer to the [Enable MySQL GTIDs](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/mysql.html#enable-mysql-gtids) documentation. 

> ## Configure inbound endpoint using micro integrator

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Configure inbound endpoint using Micro Integrator
```
